# DIME Analytics GitHub Templates

In this folder there are templates for files with Git/GitHub specific purpose. See the corresponding section below for instructions for each file.

* [.gitignore template](#dime-analytics-.gitignore-template) - a _.gitignore_ files controls which types of files will be shared in the GitHub repository
* [placeholder template](#dime-analytics-placeholder-template) - a file that can be used to share an empty folder in the GitHub repository

## DIME Analytics _.gitignore_ template

#### Purpose

All repositories should always have a _.gitignore_ file that controls which file are uploaded to the repository. Examples of files that should not be uploaded to GitHub are:

* _Binary file formats_ like .doc/.docx, .dta, .xls/.xlsx, .pdf etc.
  * The opposite to _binary file formats_ are _raw text file formats_. Examples are .do, .R, .txt, .tex, .csv etc. GitHub is intended to be used with raw text files
  * It is technically possible to upload _binary files_ to the repository, but they will slow down working with the repo if they are edited frequently.
* Password files and tokens. The code we share on GitHub might need access to a password, for example to access an API, and they should be ignored, and instead being shared in the most secure way, and be copied to the clone manually.
* There are system generated files - like `.DS_store` on Macs - that will make the repository messy if they are shared.

#### Why use a _.gitignore_ template?

Project teams usually have to customize their _.gitignore_ to fit the needs of their project, but they should always start from a template. The templates offered by GitHub tend to be specific to a programming language like Java, C++ or web-design. DIME Analytics have designed a template that is a great starting point for research teams coding in Stata, R, Python, Matlab etc.

GitHub has a template for Python, but we still recommend using our template as it is designed for research teams that share data and have outputs. The Python template on GitHub is designed for use cases more common in computer science and software development.

#### How to use this _.gitignore_ template

This template is shared under the MIT LICENSE and is therefore free for anyone to use and to modify for their own purposes. If you are familiar with _.gitignore_ files, then you can set up your own file however you want, but below are instructions for one way how to do so correctly that we have found are easy to follow even for people with little GitHub Experience.

1. Go to the main page of your repository at GitHub.com. The main page is the page in your repository is the page that looks like this: https://github.com/worldbank/DIMEwiki
1. In this top folder on the main page, click `Create new file`
1. In the _Name your file..._ field, type `.gitignore`. The `.` before `gitignore` must be included.
1. Once you have types `.gitignore`, a button will show up that says `Choose .gitignore: None`. Click that button and select any template. It does not matter which template you select as we will replace the content with the DIME Analytics template in the next step. We are only doing this to make sure the file is set up correctly.
1. Either commit the file now, or do the next step and then commit. If you commit now, you can pull the edits and do the next step in your clone, otherwise you must continue in the browser.
1. Replace the content in you _.gitignore_ file with the content in [DIME Analytics template](https://github.com/worldbank/DIMEwiki/blob/master/Topics/GitHub/gitignore_template.txt) and then commit this file to the repository.

If necessary, you can now make additions to the _.gitignore_ file that are specific to your project. But you can also do that at any point in the future.

## DIME Analytics placeholder template

#### Purpose

In Git only files are shared. Folders are still implicitly shared in Git as files are shared with the folder location in the file name. However this means that only folders that have a file or a sub-folder with a file is shared. Therefore, empty folders or folders where all files are ignored in _.gitignore_ are not shared.

It is common that repositories for research projects needs to share empty folders. For example, graph file formats are binary and should therefore not be shared in the repository, instead they should be generated by code. Let's say that the code saves the graphs in a folder called `outputs\graphs`. This folder exists in your clone but not in anyone else's clone since to Git it is empty and therefore not share as all content of this folder is ignored. This means that anyone else running your code will get an error where those graphs are created as the code expects the `outputs\graphs` folder, but no-one but you have that folder.

Somehow we need a way to share these folder, and the way to do that is to add a placeholder file.

#### Why use a _placeholder file_ template?
This template is just a suggestion and is not as important that it is copied word by word as, for example, the _.gitignore_ template. In fact, it is even better if teams customize the content of their placeholder files to provide project specific information, but we have provided a template for convenience.

#### How to use this _placeholder file_ template

There are several ways this template can be copied to your repository. However it is copied, it is should always be renamed to `README.md`. That is a special name in GitHub, and it will be displayed in the browser when anyone navigates to the folder on GitHub.com where this file sits.

If you are using Stata you can use the command [iegitaddmd](https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/wiki/Iegitaddmd) from the [ietoolkit package](https://github.com/worldbank/ietoolkit) to automate this task.

Other ways to use this place holder file is to clone this repository and copy the files on your computer to the clone where you have empty folder that needs to be shared. Or you can follow the instructions for how to copy the _.gitignore_ file, but if you do copy the placholder template content from [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/worldbank/DIMEwiki/master/Topics/GitHub/placeholder-README.md) to get the markdown formatting.
